- Collecting huge amounts of data and storing it in a suitable format is required for providing strategic information.
- As storage costs have been decreasing, this favours collection of huge data.
- Analysts, managers **interactively** analyze the strategic information. 
                   1.User asks the question, gets the result.
                   2. Looking at the result, asks another question - > gets the result.
- The above interactive process is very common nowadays.
- Improvements in interface softwares make possible interactive analysis.
- Processing large volumes of data and providing interactive analysis requires high computing power.
- Increase in the computing power and the reduction in costs make it possible.


## Oppurtunities and Risks:

- Current state of technology makes it possible to provide strategic information.

Some questions to ponder:
1. What oppurtunities are made available by the use of strategic information?
     - Informed decisions are made, that decreasing the chances of loss and increasing the chances of profit/gain. 
     - Gives awareness to the user on the business or organization with proof.
     
2. What are the threats and risks resulting from the lack of SI available in companies?
     - Increases the randomness of a decision. 

## Failures of past decision support systems:

- In most cases, reports would need data from multiple systems.
        - Requiring to write extract programs to create intermediary files from diff systems.
- The problem is worsened by the fact that users requirements might change report by report.
- New questions come up based on reports.
- The process of strategic decision demands interactiveness.

## History of Decision Support Systems:

#### Ad-hoc reports:
  - Sudden requirements that were addressed by IT teams with specific programs, one for each request.
#### Special Extract Programs:
- Attempt to predict what reports would be requested from time to time.
- Involves writing of collection of programs that would extract data from a variety of apps periodically.
- The extracted data can be used to produce reports.
- For the kind of reports that cannot be run off the extracted data -> write a new program.

#### Small Applications:

  -  Configurable small apps are created that work on the extracted files.
  - Makes the result of apps completely dependent on user configs.

#### Information Centers

- Some major coporations created this.
- Place where users can request for ad hoc reports
- Visualized in the screen.
- Predetermined reports and screen.
- IT people support was needed.

#### Decision Support System:

- Supported by extracted files
- on-line, menu driven with printing capabilities.

#### Executive Information systems:

- Attempt at bringing SI to executive desktop
- Design principle:
                - Simplicity
				- ease of use
- Display key information everyday
- Ability to request simple straightforward reports.
- Reports and screens were pre-programmed.
- Not very ad hoc.

#DWHforITproff 